---
title: The Original 6 Demands of the Black Lives Matter Movement
permalink: /Black-Lives-Matter/6demands/
---

1. End the War on Black People
Meaning: end "the criminalization and dehumanization of Black youth across all areas of society". This includes immigrants & LGBTQ+ youth!
Actions for this include ending money bail, militarization of law enforcement, and privatization of criminal justive services (police, prisons, & detention centers).

2. Reparations
What for: systemic injustices Black Americans face in education and the workplace. This acknowledges that slavery had lasting impacts into today. A plan is needed that can help with racial income disparity, housing discrimination, and environmental racism.

3. Invest & Divest
Calls for: divestment from policing & incarceration. Instead we want to invest & reallocate funds to, in te long-term, improve education, justice services, and employment (especially in Black commununities). Actions include universal healthcare and a right to fully funded education.

4. Economic Justice
Background: the white poverty rate in the US is 9%, versus the 22% among Black Americans. Actions include a redistribution of wealth through economic reconstruction. This would lead to Black communities to have collective ownership over the economy (not just access).

5. Community Control
Demands: communities, especially marginalized ones, be given the ability to control laws that impact them the most. Instances are institutions and laws like schools, police departments, and local government budgets.

6. Political Power
Calls for: an "end to the criminalization of Black political activity". This means Black people and all marginalized communities would have full political power as currently granted to the privileged.

*All from an instagram post from [@genrisemedia](https://www.instagram.com/genrisemedia/)*